a great film by robin williams you may
have missed is 1998's what dreams may
come and it's a trip for sure obviously
spoiler alert while i may give you my
opinion on the film here that's no
substitute for experiencing it yourself
links to the movie are in the
description as well i met this beautiful
girl by a lake
we open with a calming boat ride and
robin williams's voice narrating the
intro why are they both acting like they
couldn't have just gotten knocked into
the water even chris gets up in the boat
ready to yell at someone then the second
he sees her he's like no no it's okay
ram my boat and wake me from my nap
anytime
you don't say chris this is the perfect
start to one of those cheesy romance
movies the two of them eventually run
into each other on dry land and the two
of them believe it is faith that has
brought them together naturally the two
of them get married these two are made
for each other at least they can laugh
about it i know plenty of people that
that would have ruined the whole wedding
as time goes on the two of them live a
happy and fulfilled life together
eventually kids arrive and grow up while
time counts down to a fateful moment
their children are mary and ian and they
seem like a perfectly happy family
it was the last time annie and i saw
them alive
i wish that the first time i watched
this i had known this was going to start
off so depressing i'm already invested
in the characters oh god this is
depressing oh okay we're just gonna
brush right by that good to know just so
you don't get false hope the tone of
this movie does not change much there's
a consistent sense of hopelessness for
quite some time but chris does his best
to get rid of that for many children we
find out that he's a special kind of
pediatrician and he does his best to
help a girl smile when she comes in for
results meanwhile his wife is having a
nervous breakdown at her job so she
calls chris while he's working with a
little girl after solving annie's
problem he turns his attention to the
little girl again it's comforting to
know that their relationship has
prospered even with the events of four
years earlier
please no
dammit give me a break it's been 13
consistent minutes of pure depression it
turns out that the accident wasn't
enough to kill him and he's transferred
to the local hospital where they treat
him for his injuries at least there's
hope
no maybe the movie is just saying that
he had complications he's gonna be just
fine
you've died chris
well at least it can't get worse albert
is an old colleague of chris's and now
his soul is here to guide chris through
the afterlife while albert tries to
explain to chris that he really is dead
but he doesn't want to face it chris
remembers a time from when his kids were
still alive this movie just doesn't let
up even in death chris is dreaming about
when he and annie had to tell his
daughter that they were gonna kill her
dog as chris attends his own funeral he
sees how annie is hurting but he can
tell that annie can feel his presence
there later chris reads what annie
writes in her diary the more she writes
about how chris is all that kept her
saying the more chris realizes that
annie is at a crucial moment but soon he
realizes that his lingering presence is
hurting anymore
no one ever warned me what a tear-jerker
this film was we're still in the
beginning chris runs down a tunnel
towards a bright light and when he wakes
up he's in paradise his dead dog
welcomes him and the world around him
falls into puddles of pain he's happy
again
poor guy didn't even sound frantic about
dying again albert tries to explain the
ins and outs of being a consciousness
after death which chris finally begins
to understand while chris is moving
forward with his afterlife annie is
trying to express her pain through her
art what she doesn't know is that what
she's painting is becoming part of
chris's afterlife as she begins to paint
a new canvas into a masterpiece chris
sees the new edition and makes his way
over to investigate if i wasn't
expecting even more depression to follow
now i would think that was the most
magical scene of all time after they
return to chris's house he begins to
have fantasies of annie being there with
him next he has pieces of maria's
childhood appear on the beach next to
him chris is obviously beginning to lose
his paradise as you can see the weather
changes reflect his state of being chris
asks why he hasn't seen his kids yet but
albert says that he's just not ready to
see them everything happens when chris
is ready and never earlier the next day
albert has other obligations so a woman
named leona shows chris that there is
actually a mutual city in the afterlife
and she takes him there here we find out
that albert actually works in the
afterlife he saves lost souls and brings
them to their respected afterlife
whole family lost car crashes enough to
make a person buy a bike
we caught back to annie who was trying
to rationalize everything but she
actually starts blaming herself for
chris's death i want to laugh but i
can't help but just feel sorry for every
single character in this film she's lost
everyone yet she holds on longer than
some others would leona tries to help
chris better understand his grief by
making him relive a memory of his
children in the memory we see that the
city he's in is actually part of a paper
dollhouse from maria's room
[Music]
it's a happy moment in the movie finally
it won't last long
chris annie's dead she killed her
suspected i'm with you
you're not alone called it with this
news chris starts to lose what emotional
stability he might have just gained but
somehow he pulls it together you never
see her
she's a suicide suicides go somewhere
else and the reality is suicides go to
hell no goddamn judgment in that as
albert tries to explain that suicide
victims end up somewhere else other than
the place chris is chris refuses to
accept this he believes that annie has
suffered enough and they should be
together
too self-absorbed in life that they
built this world self-absorbed that's
just not apply to any all right this is
one of the most interesting ways i've
heard this described a whole lot deeper
than the black and white explanations
everyone gives even with an explanation
like that chris cannot accept it
what we and others have seen and no one
has ever seen a suicide brought back
stick around chief you ain't seen
nothing yet
i do believe that we're about to witness
a classic robin williams movie now not a
depressing epic poem we've been watching
this whole time as chris embarks on his
journey albert takes chris to the
tracker we'll find her you can say
everything you want to say including
goodbye even if she can't understand it
who tells chris that he might be able to
find annie but she won't recognize
anything he says he also says that it
might be a good time to finally say
goodbye as the three of them set sail
for annie they run into some pretty
nasty conditions i honestly wouldn't be
surprised if they died a second time the
way chris's luck has been
they're not even in hell yet where did
these people come from effective when in
doubt just shout just kidding their boat
is capsized and chris finds himself
remembering a conversation annie and him
had about ian ian in turn explains to
his father that he's not actually
blowing it he's just not his father and
with that chris's memory goes to his
last goodbye wave on the road to his
kids chris and all the other bodies wash
up onto the shore that is directly
connected to the gates of hell where we
find out that it's a wasteland of
machines
interesting hellscape kind of original
considering the time the closer they
wanted to the gate the more chris
remembers one of his last conversations
with ian he's the type of guy that men
want to be around he has character
he can't fake that of course after that
touching moment we jump to the
children's funeral chris is speaking in
front of everyone about his son as he
takes a closer look at albert chris
believes he sees something in him
your mom's not in there son
elevator to hell going on
we could have saved this man so much
time and struggle if we had just put his
kids there front and center once he died
this is like an emotional shape-shifting
where's waldo after the two of them hug
it out the tracker tells him that albert
has to stay behind reluctantly albert
agrees the two of them embrace one more
time but not before albert tells chris
to bring annie back with him chris and
the tracker continue onward into hell as
they continue chris remembers back to a
time when annie has been committed to a
psych ward after the children's death
she begins to question whether chris and
her are too different to stay together
but chris reassures her that they'll get
through it together
you got a choice
life goes on
or not and you choose life the sheer
strength of these two is astounding to
go through losing both of their children
and still manage to stay together
through it all is amazing well that took
a turn again it's the imagery in this
film that really makes you contemplate
what you believe happens this is a
little unsettling chris makes his way
through the sea of faces until he sees a
familiar face once he recognizes her he
is immediately thrown into a memory of
the two of them lying on the grass
looking at the clouds as chris runs to
annie he falls through a weak spot in
the sea of faces and he falls farther
into hell as he emerges from the water
he finds where annie is it's their house
the tracker warns chris that it's all an
illusion set up by annie it's now that
the tracker reveals that he's actually
the real albert he explains that he
really does wish he could save annie but
he's more at risk being there than
anywhere else in hell
three minutes
anymore you could lose your
mind how can you lose your mind
once her reality becomes yours tell me
he doesn't look like a man that would
think that idea didn't sound that bad as
he walks into the remnants of a house
that is just a memory chris finally
comes face to face with annie once again
damn it how did that actually get me to
scare her she scared us as the two of
them interact you can tell that annie
doesn't know about anything chris is
talking about she tries to ask him to
leave but chris is persistent he begins
to explain what was so special about the
anniversary they were going to celebrate
the night he died in a memory chris
explains to annie why that day was
called their decision day it was the day
they decided to make a change
okay
it shows a lot of someone's character
that he didn't have to die to have this
epiphany this is a memory of when they
were alive he already fixed the problem
this story isn't about a man redeeming
his bad decisions in life it's about a
man who had already addressed them but
he wasn't going to let them hold him
back even in death even though annie had
given up hope chris shows her she can
still see him in her dreams but she's
too caught up in her own guilt and world
as chris realizes that he can't save her
he begins to apologize to her for
everything he won't be able to do he
also thanks her for everything she ever
added to his life
i apologize for every time i failed you
especially this one
that's how you know he's at peace with
what's happening at least as well as he
could be when chris leaves and sees
albert albert explains that this trip
has always been for chris never for
annie in the end chris makes a decision
that resounds with anyone that has loved
that special someone
you tell my children i love them this
movie is depressing i mean we know it's
not just gonna end here but the journey
to here alone was enough to make someone
grab a top of ice cream and cry
throughout it chris goes back in with
annie and he explains to her that they
won't remember each other in a minute
but he's gonna be with her forever this
is the best movie i've watched in a
while the sense of humbleness with the
gravity of the story is perfect after
this annie recognizes chris but chris
has spent too long in her reality he
loses himself just as annie remembers it
all fun fact annabella who plays annie
wasn't going to take the role because
she thought it was too intense and sad
after she read lines with robin she
changed her mind though after a quick
montage of memories chris wakes up in
his house in heaven again he gets up to
look around and after he realizes where
he is he seems to lose a little bit of
hope somehow this movie is pulling off a
happy ending considering how it started
i guess any ending would be happier than
the beginning of the film as chris turns
around he sees that annie really is
right there with him as the two of them
finally reach their happy ending tears
of joy roll down their faces as they
kiss each other chris finally asks how
he got there and annie explains that
it's all in his mind if that's all it
takes why couldn't you get yourself out
on your own then it's apparently not
that simple annie chris surprises annie
by showing her the landscape that she
had painted of their dream home was
indeed a reality for them now the
tracker even shows up and presents their
kids for annie to be reunited after
chris and annie spent some time together
the two of them decide to reincarnate
again magically they find each other
once again soul mates are a wonder all
in all this film was an emotional roller
coaster that i should have seen coming
really i mean robin williams in the 90s
was nothing but a poster boy for
emotional roller coaster movies i'm
looking at you patch adams this is a
masterpiece and it deserves to be
recognized as such i hope you enjoyed
the video and by all means watch the
film for yourself there's something
there for everyone if you did like it
leave a like on the video and suggest
what i should watch next subscribe if
you want to see more videos like this
one and i'll see you in the next video